## Files

### devenv.nix

The only required file for specifying the developer environment.

Generated by `devenv init` and thoroughly documented, starting with [the basics](./basics.md).

### devenv.local.nix

Same as `devenv.nix`, but not meant to be committed into the Git repository so
that developers can override some things for their local use case.

### devenv.yaml

Configuration for [inputs](inputs.md) and [imports](composing-using-imports.md),
allowing you to specify dependencies and how to compose them.

### devenv.lock

Pinned [inputs](inputs.md), making sure your developer environment is reproducible.

### .envrc

[direnv](https://direnv.net) integration logic, auto-generated using `devenv init`.

See [automatic shell activation](automatic-shell-activation.md) to set up your shell
to automatically activate the developer environment when you `cd` into it.

## Environment Variables

### $DEVENV_ROOT

Points to the root of the project where `devenv.nix` is located.

### $DEVENV_DOTFILE

Points to `$DEVENV_ROOT/.devenv`.

### $DEVENV_STATE

Points to `$DEVENV_DOTFILE/state`.

### $DEVENV_RUNTIME

Points to a temporary directory with a path that's unique to each `$DEVENV_ROOT`.
It's used for storing sockets and other runtime files.
Defaults to `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR` and falls back to `$TMPDIR` and finally `/tmp`.

### $DEVENV_PROFILE

Points to the Nix store path that has final profile of packages/scripts provided by devenv.

Useful for teaching other programs about `/bin`, `/etc`, `/var` folders.
